---
title: Preludes
date: 2015-07-26
---

This evening I walked from the Lincoln Center at 66th and Broadway down
to 40th street, all the while listening to Rachmaninoff's 1929
performance of his Piano Concerto № 2. My noise cancelling headphones
masked the never ending cacophony of the city. The experience of the
third movement was slightly surreal, coinciding with my traversal of
Times Square.

This was brought on by having just watched [Preludes], ‘a musical fantasia
set in the hypnotized mind of Russian composer Sergei Rachmaninoff’,
which is playing at the Lincoln Center through to August second.
Rachmaninoff suffered depression and writer's block, and visited
hypnotherapist Nikolai Dahl to help him break through it. Rachmaninoff
dedicated the second Concerto to Dahl.

[preludes]: http://www.lct.org/shows/preludes/

To say I really enjoyed the play would be a slight understatement. One
of the actors was at a grand piano in center stage. He played pieces
that came up in dialogue, as well as snatches of themes from Piano
Concerto № 2 as the composer worked through his block. I experienced
[musical frisson—or ‘skin orgasm’—][skin-orgasm]several times; I hadn't
listened to any Rachmaninoff in a good while, but he is way up on my
list of favourite composers. The C♯ minor and G minor preludes, both of
which I love, were played in full.

[skin-orgasm]: http://www.bbc.com/future/story/20150721-when-was-the-last-time-music-gave-you-a-skin-orgasm


Musical performances aside, there was plenty of food for thought.
Creativity, performance anxiety, writer's block, depression, a need to
be ‘great’, obsession with how others perceive you and your work—all too
familiar! I wish I'd had a notebook out to jot down some quotes to think
over more, especially as I come to the last three weeks at the Recurse
Center. I've not written here in about two weeks, and some of that is
not feeling like I have something worthy of writing about. And the
longer I go without writing, the more important it seems for the next
writing to be, if not great, at least good. I hope the play will snap me
out of that. Let's see!

<br>

_Thanks to David Albert for telling me about the play, and to the fellow
recursers who joined me at the play._
