---
title: "100:10:1 update 7"
date: 2016-04-25
---

It's been a month since the last update, which is definitely too long.
Here we go!

## projects I worked since last update

### cargo fmt-diff

After weeks of being "almost there", I finally tidied up my initial work
into [a pull request][line-ranges-pr]! The pull request and commit
messages are good if you want to see details of what I did. The tl;dr is
that there is a `--experimental-file-lines` flag that allows you to
specify `FILE:RANGE,RANGE,...` to limit formatting to specific lines. It
only formats statements for now though!

I had to do a bit of redesigning of my initial approach. I had been
assuming each run of the formatting function would affect only specific
files. However, by default it formats reachable files in the same crate.
This made me change the field on the configuration object from a set of
lines for a single file to a map from file names to line sets.

There's still some more refactoring work to put the line checks in the
right place, as well as making it handle more than just statements.
I wanted to get feedback on it before going further, since it's already
a `+704 −131` change. I was hoping it'd fall in at closer to `+400` net.
Some of the surplus comes from including a few refactorings that *could*
have been split out, but that I think make most sense in context of this
PR.

[line-ranges-pr]: https://github.com/rust-lang-nursery/rustfmt/pull/959

### silly key-value store

I did some experiments which resulted in the OOM killer going on a rampage
on my laptop. This was fun!

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">oh that was cool! I just got the OOM killer to kill stuff because I tried to fill 4GB of pipe buffers on system with 4GB RAM. still running!</p>&mdash; Kamal Marhubi (@kamalmarhubi) <a href="https://twitter.com/kamalmarhubi/status/720386837953404928">April 13, 2016</a></blockquote>
<script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

This is the project I'm expecting to work on most this week. There will
probably be a blog post or two as a result, and hopefully an exciting
update next time!


## projects I didn't work on

- tufcrates
- containy-thing
